= Simple Blog Website!

== Goals

This project has two main goals: 

* A refresher in creating a rails application
* Create a robust professional blog for myself, and/or whoever needs a blog as well. 

== Project Overview

In short, this is a simple blog application that allows the blog owner to make blog posts, and allows end users to read the blog posts.

The blog is maintained primarily by an "owner" who is can create/edit/delete posts. The about page of the blog is based on the "about" and "name" field of the "owner" user. There are administrator users that are also allowed to create/edit/delete posts.

== Set up

I haven't had time to test the blog application on other systems, but below is the configuration that I'm curently running on.

=== Confirmed Working Ruby Version 

Tested and ran on Ruby 2.3.0. 

=== Confirmed Working OS

Tested and ran on Arch Linux

=== Database configuration 

I use postgres to integrate with Heroku. You can look up how to install Postgres on Arch Linux on its Wiki https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/PostgreSQL

You'll have to make two psql databases: blog_dev and blog_test. 

Once psql is set up, run `rake db:setup` to get the development database set up. This will create the tables and seed the User table with the default admin user. 

=== Running Tests 

    rake test

=== Deployment

I've currently working on how to deploy to Heroku, so stay tunned! To start the server on your dev machine, execute

    rails server

=== Continuous integration

I've been using Travis CI to test builds before they're merged with master.

=== Using the blog for the first time. 

To start adding posts to the blog as the owner, go to localhost:3000/login and enter the default admin credentials admin@blog.net with password "administrator". 

I'm currently working on views to edit email, name and password. 

Thanks for reading, and have fun poking around the source code! 

kroppian
